# CLG, Complex Logic Gate
CLG, Complex logic gate, implements BB, Basic Behavior, when receiving input in
form of BI, Basic Inormation. Basic behavior is created when some sort of
complex logic operation is processed with respect to some fundamental input. In
computer science there are logic gates implementing logic operations causing
some action. The concept of CLGs presumes the need of more sophisticated logic
gates to mimic human behavior. The theory is that as soon as there are enough
sufficient CLGs, intellectual explosion will happen. CLGs are supposed to be
the minimal and fundamental inborn logic units that can be used out of the box.
This builtin functionality should be the only hard coded logic. All other
behavior must result out of the combination of learned data, CLGs and
connections between these two.

Random fact: currently Anna is capable of more than 130 CLG implementations.
This number is expected to to be raised even further. For now manually, later
on automatically. See https://godoc.org/github.com/xh3b4sd/anna/spec#CLGIndex.

### BI, Basic Information
BI, Basic Information, represent fundamental information that must be known to
reach a higher level of intelligence. The most fundamental BIs like numbers
from the decimal number system or letters from the latin alphabet simply need
to be provided. A human and a machine respectively cannot think of something
totally unknown out of nothing. There needs to be information in the first
place, so some kind of intelligence can collect and connect these to generate
new knowledge. Looking at the process of how humans learn, we have teachers and
other humans who explain fundamental concepts that help to explore the world by
our own. Having that said there is a need for some guidance for a machine to
learn. Goal should be to make a machine able to gather information by itself
using available sensors, interfaces and resources it is able to access.

### BB, Basic Behavior
BB, Basic Behavior, can probably be seen as instinct, intuition or talent.
There are presets within humans. These enable us to do things without actively
thinking about them. These things are might be in our DNA, subconscious mind or
as football trainers would point at it, in our blood. BB lets us breathe from
the first second of our life, make us fear dangerous things and let us explore
our environment using our inborn senses. So some sort of BB a machine needs to
have to learn in a guided fashion and later autonomously.

### The Intelligence Gap
Lets get a little bit more strange. Think about `E = mc²`. Energy equals mass
times velocity squared. This equation seems to describe a lot of physical
concepts around us. As I am seeing it, the theory of relativity also leans
towards the solution of artificial intelligence, all failures reserved.

Taking the mass-energy equivalence for granted and seeing it as abstract
description for intelligence we can write the following, slightly modified,
formular to express how intelligence is created: `I = ibⁿ`. Intelligence equals
information times exponential behavior. Simply put, one piece of information,
combined with a lot of pieces of behaviour, creates some sort of intelligence.

We made a lot of crazy assumptions, that do not feel that crazy as they might
sound in the first place, when thinking about it for some time. Anyway, there
is a technical issue that needs to be solved to fix the intelligence gap, to
make artificial intelligence work. The intelligence gap describes the gap
between information and behavior. This gap needs to be filled to make the
intelligence equation work. This technical issue is solved by the concept of
CLGs. A CLG creates behavior when having information provided during execution.
The information provided here are given by [connections](connection.md). CLGs
combined to [strategies](strategy.md), executed in different
[stages](stage.md), create complex behavior. Such complex behavior is able to
solve any problem.
